It's time to talk about datatypes datatypes are very easy and moreover in this course we will only be
working for them so we should be able to fly through this tutorial very quickly.
OK datatypes are we going to look at a type and an example and basically a data type is a format or
a storage method for your call.
So what what is your column.
Is it a text is it a number.
Is it a date.
What type of number it is.
And so on so that data type specifies how Asgill should store your column your field how much space
it should allocate for that field and how it should treat that field.
So data type number one is a bar chart where n is the number of characters the maximum number of characters
you know are and example is a string of text.
Hello my name is Kyrle So everything between the single quotations we've already seen March are many
many times.
Basically everything that we upload into our old files is a Bartsch are by default because it comes
in as text and we specified usually a thousand.
If that's not enough we suppose we're 5000 characters maximum length for bar chart in a scale is eight
thousand characters.
So basically any string of text including a single character.
So we're going to store single characters as Watcher anyway even though there are other types for storage
of single characters.
Next is inte well into or integer is a whole number.
Anything like 25 or 100 10000.
Those are all whole numbers and if you want numbers to be treated as numbers and not as text then we've
already seen examples the examples of this previously.
If you are numbers which is numbers and not as just strings of characters one up to the other then you
need to store them as integers and off to this Torneo we will learn how to convert datatypes and later
on in the course will learn how to actually store them in tables as the correct types.
So for now everything we're working with is by default in bar chart because it's raw files.
But eventually we'll get to a point where we will be storing fields in their correct data types.
The next one will be working with is a float.
So basically any number with a decimal point doesn't matter how many characters or how many digits after
the decimal point in this case it's 1040 and 53.
So it could be much more characters after the decimal point.
I mean I mean death's digits after the decimal point doesn't matter.
So basically any number with that decimal point you want to stored as a float ideally because that way
you'll be able to add them up or compare them and perform mathematical operations with them instead
of just being a string of numbers or if it's just text then you can do all those things.
And important point is if you multiply an integer by a float that in the results you will get a float
so the resulting column that you're going to get after multiplying two columns one of which is an integer
1 is a float that result in call will be a float.
That's a good thing to keep in mind and remember for the future we will see one of those examples in
the next section of the course.
And the final type that you will be predominately working with are the final These four are the ones
that you reproduced with you're working with and the final one of them is a date.
So in a secure all data stored in this format where year month day which is exactly the same word we're
uploading and it's called the canonical format for dates very you know very easy to understand what
this is is just basically a data stored in a scale and why it's important to store dates as dates and
not as text because then you can compare a what came first what came next.
And you can Next use special functions to extract months and days from these days and years and so on
so you can work with dates as dates.
So those are the main four that we will be working with in this course and basically you shouldn't need
anything more than that in your work as a data scientist although I will point out another theory that
you might come across because maybe somebody supplies you for a table that is formatted in that that
specific type or for some other reasons so let's have a look at another three that you might ever come
across.
Date time.
So this one is the most likely that you will come across is if your daughter has like dates and times
where not just the day but also you know when the day something happened for instance this could be
data on a certain sports event and you know when somebody started and finished the race and things like
that so maybe that will help.
Times are when when transactions happen for instance somebody was swiping credit cards you might also
know and you might need this information when jury at which time of the day the person was swiping a
credit card.
So in that case there's a format in or a type in a skill which is called Day time there.
That's how it looks like it's got the date and the time bit on it.
So don't get confused if you don't have time date.
Don't use date time some people always use date time and then they have all these zeros for hours minutes
and seconds.
Doesn't look good and you know it just can confuse you if you have a date is a date if you have a date
time use a date time.
Sometimes you might find a time handy but often it might be selfish and might even be better to store
your dates separately and then your hours your minute and your second in separate homes.
That might allow you to you know give you a bit more flexibility of what you can do of those pieces
elements of data before having to invoke additional functions.
Bit is basically a Boolean type in you know skills called bitted it's a one or a zero or a full or a
or a null.
And it allows it to you know check conditions on a chicken store condition results.
Like if if a condition was true or false.
Basically working hard but personally I'd rather use an integer why would you go for it.
It's just maybe for security purposes so nobody can put in a different value in there.
But in data science work I rarely I think I use it maybe once or twice ever use it in integers enough
.
And finally money if it's in money.
My basic advice is run from it.
Don't ever use money it's it's a very horrible horrible horrible type.
I've seen people who I just I don't know why it's I guess they vitty and inexperience maybe even like
money you can't do much.
It's like it's like a float type but you can divide one by the other it's very imprecise.
It causes lots of headache down the track so if you have a value which is like a dollar value then stored
in a float type don't ever use money and if somebody is using money try to advise them against it.
Or when you get the data in your tables converted to float because money can cause you problems on the
track.
Mark my word don't use money.
I mean don't use that type of money in school.
So that's all types.
Pretty straightforward stuff.
This is just basically saying how your column is stored and treated as well.
And the next total We will talk about type conversions